U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Office of the Director (MS 2000)
Washington, DC 20529-2000
April 17, 2017 PM-602-0144
Policy Memorandum
SUBJECT: Matter of O-A-, Inc., Adopted Decision 2017-03 (AAO Apr. 17, 2017)
This policy memorandum (PM) designates the attached decision of the Administrative Appeals
Office (AAO) in Matter of O-A-, Inc. as an Adopted Decision. Accordingly, this adopted
decision establishes policy guidance that applies to and binds all U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (USCIS) employees. USCIS personnel are directed to follow the
reasoning in this decision in similar cases.
Matter of O-A-, Inc. clarifies that USCIS must conduct a case-specific analysis to determine
whether, at the time a provisional certificate is issued, a beneficiary has completed all substantive
requirements to earn the degree and the university or college has approved the degree. If the
provisional certificate does so demonstrate, USCIS will consider the date of the provisional
certificate for purposes of calculating post-baccalaureate experience.
Use
This PM is intended solely for the guidance of USCIS personnel in the performance of their
official duties. It is not intended to, does not, and may not be relied upon to create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or by any individual or other party in
removal proceedings, in litigation with the United States, or in any other form or manner.

Contact Information
Questions or suggestions regarding this PM should be addressed through appropriate directorate
channels to the AAO. 
ADOPTED DECISION
MATTER OF O-A-, INC.
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE
U.S. CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
April 17, 2017[1]
(1) U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) must conduct a case-specific analysis to determine
whether, at the time a provisional certificate is issued, a beneficiary has completed all substantive
requirements to earn the degree and the university or college has approved the degree. USCIS must
consider evidence presented regarding the individual nature of each university’s or college’s
requirements for each program of study and each student’s completion of those requirements.
(2) If a petitioner establishes that, as of the date the provisional certificate was issued, the beneficiary had
met all substantive requirements for the degree and that the degree was approved, USCIS will consider
the date of the provisional certificate for purposes of calculating post-graduate experience.
FOR THE PETITIONER: Monica M. Bathija, Esquire, San Francisco, California
The Petitioner, a computer software business, seeks to employ the Beneficiary as a software developer.
It requests classification of the Beneficiary as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree
under the second preference immigrant classification. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act)
section 203(b)(2), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(2). This “EB-2” classification allows a U.S. employer to
sponsor a professional with an advanced degree for an immigrant visa to pursue lawful permanent
resident status. A bachelor’s degree alone does not qualify as an “advanced degree,” but a bachelor’s
degree and an additional five years of post-baccalaureate progressive experience will suffice for EB-2
classification purposes.
1 On March 15, 2017, we issued this decision as a non-precedent decision. We have reopened this decision on our own
motion under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(5)(i) for the purpose of making revisions in preparation for U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services designating it as an Adopted Decision.
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Administrative Appeals Office
20 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., MS 2090
Washington, DC 20529-2090
 
Matter of O-A-, Inc. Adopted Decision
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center found that, based on the issuance date of the
Beneficiary’s bachelor’s degree diploma, the Beneficiary could not show, as required, a minimum of
five years of post-baccalaureate experience to establish that she possesses the equivalent of an
advanced degree.
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary does have the five years of postbaccalaureate experience, when measured from the date she received a provisional certificate
demonstrating her degree was complete and approved and not from the date when the diploma itself
was later issued.
Upon de novo review, we will sustain the appeal.
I. LAW
Employment-based immigration generally follows a three-step process. First, an employer must
obtain an approved labor certification from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL). See section
212(a)(5)(A)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(5)(A)(i). By approving the labor certification, DOL
certifies that there are insufficient U.S. workers who are able, willing, qualified, and available for the
offered position and that employing a foreign national in the position will not adversely affect the wages
and working conditions of workers similarly employed. Section 212(a)(5)(A)(i)(I)-(II) of the Act.
Second, the employer may file an immigrant visa petition with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS). See section 204(a)(1)(F) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1154(a)(1)(F). Third, if USCIS
approves the petition, the foreign national may apply for an immigrant visa abroad or, if eligible,
adjustment of status in the United States. See sections 221 and 245 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1201,
1255.
For this advanced degree professional position, the labor certification must provide that the job
requires an advanced degree or its equivalent. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(4)(i). In pertinent part,
Department of Homeland Security regulations define the term “advanced degree” as: “[A]ny United
States academic or professional degree or a foreign equivalent degree above that of baccalaureate. A
United States baccalaureate degree or a foreign equivalent degree followed by at least five years of
progressive experience in the specialty shall be considered the equivalent of a master’s degree.”
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(2) (emphasis added). To be eligible for this EB-2 classification solely on the basis
of a foreign degree equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s degree, a beneficiary must also possess five years of
qualifying post-baccalaureate experience. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(3)(i)(B).
II. ANALYSIS
The Beneficiary possesses a bachelor’s degree in electronic engineering from Jawaharlal Nehru
Technological University (JNTU) in India. The issue presented here is not whether the
Beneficiary’s degree counts or whether her post-degree experience qualifies as progressive
experience. The only remaining issue is when JNTU conferred the “degree” to the Beneficiary, after
which date we may credit her progressive experience to qualify for EB-2 classification. More
2 
Matter of O-A-, Inc. Adopted Decision
specifically, we explore here whether the five years of experience can only be measured from when
she received the formal diploma itself, or earlier, when she completed all the requirements for the
degree and received what is commonly termed a provisional certificate reflecting that her degree was
approved. We conclude that, based on the specific circumstances and evidence in this case, the
provisional certificate constitutes her official academic record of her “degree” for purposes of
calculating the five-year period of post-graduate experience.
Several dates are critical to this case. The date the labor certification is filed, in cases such as this one,
is called the “priority date.” See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(d). A beneficiary must be eligible as of that date,
and so in this case the Beneficiary must have had the five years’ requisite experience by the date the
labor certification was filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). The Beneficiary’s priority date is October
23, 2014. JNTU issued her a provisional certificate on May 17, 2006, but she did not receive her formal
diploma until March 30, 2007. The record establishes that she accrued four years and eight months of
qualifying experience from a combination of three employers during this period between her diploma
date and her priority date. The Director thus concluded that the Beneficiary fell just short of the five
year requirement and denied the petition.
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary did accrue the requisite five years of postbaccalaureate experience if we recognize that her “degree” was conferred on the earlier date of her
provisional certificate, or May 17, 2006. The Beneficiary began working in a qualifying capacity a few
weeks later, in June 2006, and nearly a year before she received her formal diploma. So the
Beneficiary has the required five years of experience if measured from the date of her provisional
certificate, but not if measured from the date of her diploma.
The statute and regulations governing the EB-2 classification speak in terms of “degrees,” not
diplomas. So, from the outset, it is clear that we cannot simply limit our analysis to the date on
which a university confers a formal diploma on its newest alumni. Applicable EB-2 regulations
reflect this distinction. For these EB-2 “bachelor plus five” petitions, the “initial evidence” rule
requires submission of an “official academic record” showing the beneficiary has a foreign
equivalent “degree.” 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(3)(i)(B). An “official academic record” is not limited to a
formal diploma.2
 In fact, in the very next provision – relating to EB-2 exceptional ability petitions –
the initial evidence rule expressly distinguishes between degree and diploma: “[a]n official academic
record showing that the alien has a degree, diploma, certificate, or similar award from a college,
university,….” 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(k)(3)(ii)(A) (emphasis added).3
2 See also USCIS Adjudicator’s Field Manual, Appendix 22-1, Memorandum from Michael D. Cronin, Acting Associate
Commissioner, USCIS HQ 70/6.2, Educational and Experience Requirements for Employment-Based Second Preference
(EB-2) Immigrants (March 20, 2000), https://uscis.gov/ilink/docView/AFM/HTML/AFM/0-0-0-1/0-0-0-26573/0-0-0-
31107.html (last visited Mar. 15, 2017), (“Whether the alien beneficiary possesses the advanced degree should be
demonstrated by evidence in the form of a transcript from the institution that granted the advanced degree. An
adjudicator must similarly consider the baccalaureate transcript….”) (emphasis added). 3 While this provision helps clarify that the terms degree and diploma are not equivalent, we note generally that, in
contrast to the advanced degree category, the EB-2 exceptional ability category is not grounded entirely in an academic
award and thus its initial evidence rule is more expansive than that of the advanced degree category.
3
 
Matter of O-A-, Inc. Adopted Decision
Accordingly, we must conduct a case-specific analysis to determine whether, at the time a
provisional certificate is issued, the individual has completed all substantive requirements to earn the
degree and the college or university has approved the degree. We must consider evidence presented
regarding the individual nature of each university’s or college’s requirements for each program of
study and each student’s completion of those requirements. A petitioner will bear the burden to
establish that a beneficiary’s provisional certificate reflects that, at the time the certificate was
issued, all of the substantive requirements for the degree were met and the degree was in fact
approved by the responsible college or university body.4

Here, the record contains the following university documents contemporaneous with the relevant
events: (1) a copy of the Beneficiary’s statement of marks showing that she passed the final exams;
(2) a copy of the Beneficiary’s provisional certificate issued on May 17, 2006, which states that the
Beneficiary passed the “B.Tech Electronics and Communication Engineering Examination,” and that
the Beneficiary “has satisfied all the requirements for the award of the B.Tech Degree of the
[JNTU];” and (3) a copy of the Beneficiary’s diploma that the JNTU issued on March 30, 2007. In
addition, the Petitioner submitted a February 2016 letter from JNTU’s director of evaluation stating
that the Beneficiary’s provisional certificate is proof of her completion of all the degree requirements
in May 2006 and that issuance of her diploma was delayed for administrative reasons. The record
therefore demonstrates that, as of May 2006, the Beneficiary had completed all substantive
requirements for the degree and the university had in fact approved the degree.
Finally, we have turned to information publicly available from the American Association of
Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO) Electronic Database for Global
Education (EDGE),5 and note that it accords with the Petitioner’s claim and evidence. On the matter
of provisional certificates issued by recognized Indian universities, AACRAO EDGE states:
The Provisional Degree Certificate is evidence of completion of all requirements for
the degree in question, the name of the degree and the date upon which it was
approved by the responsible university governing body, and is comparable to an
official US academic transcript with a degree statement certifying completion of all
requirements for the degree, the name of the degree and the date upon which it was
approved by the academic senate at universities in the United States.6

4 Along with any other proffered evidence, petitioners must also submit a copy of a beneficiary’s statement of marks or
transcript to demonstrate years of study, and coursework completed, along with a copy of the provisional certificate. See
8 C.F.R § 204.5(k)(3) (requiring the submission of an official academic record as evidence of a beneficiary’s possession
of an advanced degree or equivalent of an advanced degree). 5 AACRAO is “a nonprofit, voluntary, professional association of more than 11,000 higher education professionals who
represent approximately 2,600 institutions in over 40 countries.” http://www4.aacrao.org/centennial/about.htm (last
visited Mar. 15, 2017). According to its registration page, EDGE is “a web-based resource for the evaluation of foreign
educational credentials.” http://edge.aacrao.org/info.php (last visited Mar. 15, 2017). 6 See India: Provisional Degree Certificate, AACRAO, http://edge.aacrao.org/country/credential/provisional-degreecertificate (last visited Mar. 15, 2017).
4
 
Matter of O-A-, Inc. Adopted Decision
EDGE additionally notes that some students never receive their “final Degree Certificate,” but
instead rely on the provisional degree certificate as evidence of degree completion.7

III. CONCLUSION
The provisional certificate, together with her statement of marks, demonstrates that the Beneficiary
completed all the substantive requirements for her degree and that the university approved her
degree. Issuance of the provisional certificate conferred the foreign equivalent of a U.S. bachelor’s
degree. Applying the provisional certificate date, we also find that she obtained at least five years of
qualifying post-baccalaureate experience. Accordingly, the Petitioner has established that the
Beneficiary meets the minimum education and experience requirements of the labor certification and
of EB-2 classification.
ORDER: The appeal is sustained.
Cite as Matter of O-A-, Inc., Adopted Decision 2017-03 (AAO Apr. 17, 2017)
7 Id.
5
 