Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
1 This matter was initially decided on January 11, 2006, and designated as an “adopted
decision” of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (“USCIS”), guiding USCIS officers
in their administration of the immigration laws. It was not designated as precedent under
8 C.F.R. § 1003.1(i) (2010) until October 20, 2010. On our own motion, we reopen and
amend the decision for the limited purpose of making editorial revisions consistent with
designation of the decision as precedent.
369
Matter of CHAWATHE
Decided October 20, 20101
U.S. Department of Homeland Security
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Administrative Appeals Office
(1) For purposes of establishing the requisite continuous residence in naturalization
proceedings pursuant to section 316(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.
§ 1427(b) (2006), a publicly held corporation may be deemed an “American firm
or corporation” if the applicant establishes that the corporation is both incorporated
in the United States and trades its stock exclusively on U.S. stock exchange markets.
(2) When an applicant’s employer is a publicly held corporation that is incorporated in the
United States and trades its stock exclusively on U.S. stock markets, the applicant need
not demonstrate the nationality of the corporation by establishing the nationality of those
persons who own more than 51% of the stock of that firm. Matter of Warrach, 17 I&N
Dec. 285, 286-87 (Reg. Comm’r 1979), clarified.
(3) In most administrative immigration proceedings, the applicant must prove
by a preponderance of evidence that he or she is eligible for the benefit sought.
(4) Even if the director has some doubt as to the truth, if the petitioner submits relevant,
probative, and credible evidence that leads the director to believe that the claim is “more
likely than not” or “probably” true, the applicant has satisfied the standard of proof.
Matter of E-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm’r 1989), followed.
(5) If the director can articulate a material doubt, it is appropriate for the director to either
request additional evidence or, if that doubt leads the director to believe that the claim
is probably not true, deny the application or petition.
ON BEHALF OF APPLICANT: Pro se
BEFORE: Perry Rhew, Chief, Administrative Appeals Office
The application to preserve residence for naturalization purposes was
denied by the Acting District Director, San Francisco, California, and is now
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
2
 A “stock” is a proportional part of a corporation’s capital represented by the total number
of equal units (or shares) owned, and granting the stockholder the right to participate in the
management of the corporation and share in its profits. See generally Black’s Law
Dictionary 1428 (7th ed. 2002).
370
before the Administrative Appeals Office (“AAO”) on appeal. The appeal will
be sustained.
The primary question presented in this matter is whether a publicly traded
corporation may be considered an “American firm or corporation,” pursuant
to section 316(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1427(b)
(2006), when its stock ownership is widely dispersed and there is no readily
available means to determine the nationality of its owners.2
 Upon review, the
AAO concludes that a publicly held corporation may be deemed an “American
firm or corporation” for purposes of section 316(b) of the Act if the applicant
establishes that the corporation is both incorporated in the United States and
trades its stock exclusively on U.S. stock markets.
I. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
The applicant is an employee of ChevronTexaco Corporation who
was granted permanent resident status on June 26, 2000, as a member
of a profession holding an advanced degree or having exceptional ability.
Expecting to file an application for naturalization as a United States citizen
in the future, the applicant filed an Application to Preserve Residence for
Naturalization Purposes (Form N-470) with his local immigration office
in San Francisco, California, on January 30, 2003. The applicant seeks
to preserve his residence for naturalization purposes under section 316(b)
of the Act as a lawful permanent resident who will be temporarily absent from
the United States for the purpose of employment with an “American firm
or corporation.”
In order to be naturalized as a United States citizen, the Act requires in part
that a person reside continuously in the United States as a lawful permanent
resident for at least 5 years prior to filing an application for naturalization, and
that the person be physically present in the United States for at least one half
of the required residency period. See generally section 316 of the Act.
Section 316(b) of the Act provides that an absence from the United States for
a continuous period of 1 year or more shall break the continuity of the required
5-year period of continuous residence.
However, section 316(b) of the Act also provides that no period of absence
from the United States shall break the continuity of residence if the applicant
proves to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Homeland Security that he or she
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
371
has been physically present and residing in the United States after being
lawfully admitted for permanent residence for an uninterrupted period of at least
one year and . . . is employed by an American firm or corporation engaged in whole
or in part in the development of foreign trade and commerce of the United States,
or a subsidiary thereof more than 50 per centum of whose stock is owned
by an American firm or corporation . . . .
In the present matter, the director determined that the applicant had failed
to establish that his employer, ChevronTexaco Corporation, was an “American
firm or corporation” as required by the Act. The director determined further
that the applicant had failed to establish that his temporary overseas employer,
Saudi Arabian Texaco, qualified as a ChevronTexaco Corporation
“subsidiary” under section 316(b) of the Act. The director denied the
application for preservation of residence for naturalization purposes on this
basis.
On appeal, the applicant asserts that his employer, ChevronTexaco
Corporation (hereafter referred to as ChevronTexaco), was incorporated in the
State of Delaware and qualifies as an “American firm or corporation” under
section 316(b) of the Act. The applicant also asserts that Saudi Arabian
Texaco is owned and controlled by ChevronTexaco and therefore qualifies
as a “subsidiary of an American corporation.”
II. “AMERICAN FIRM OR CORPORATION”
For purposes of section 316(b) of the Act, the nationality of a firm
or corporation has traditionally been determined through tracing the percentage
of individual ownership interest in a firm or corporation, and by tracing the
nationality of the persons having principal ownership interests (more than
50%) in the firm or corporation. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
Regional Commissioner stated in Matter of Warrach, 17 I&N Dec. 285,
286-87 (Reg. Comm’r 1979), that
when it is shown that 51 percent or more of the stock of the employer corporation
is owned by a foreign firm, such firm is a “foreign corporation” within the meaning
of section 316(b). The fact that a firm is incorporated under the laws of a state
of the United States does not necessarily determine that it is an American firm
or corporation. The nationality of such firm would be determined by the nationality
of those persons who own more than 51 percent of the stock of that firm.
Thus, under the principles set forth in Matter of Warrach,
ChevronTexaco’s incorporation in the State of Delaware does not establish
that ChevronTexaco is an “American firm or corporation.” Rather, the
applicant must also demonstrate that more than 50% of ChevronTexaco
is owned by persons who are United States citizens. The applicant in the
present matter provided no evidence to establish who the individual
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
3 In general, the capital stock of a corporation may be “closely held” or “publicly held.”
A closely held corporation issues stock to a few stockholders, and that stock is not traded
on the public stock markets or securities exchanges. By contrast, the stock of a publicly held
corporation is listed on the public stock markets and is traded to and among the general
public. See Black’s Law Dictionary, supra, at 341-44. The U.S. public stock markets
or securities exchanges include the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Nasdaq Stock
Market (NASDAQ), the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) [now known as NYSE Amex
Equities], the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), the Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX),
Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), and the National Stock Exchange (NSX).
372
ChevronTexaco stockholders are, or to establish the percentage of ownership
interests held by each stockholder. Nor did the applicant provide evidence
or information to establish the nationality of each stockholder or owner of the
corporation. The applicant therefore failed to establish that ChevronTexaco
is an “American corporation” as defined in Matter of Warrach.
The AAO notes that the principles set forth in Matter of Warrach apply
well to traditional situations involving closely held companies or corporations.
However, the Warrach principles fail to address or to take into account the
difficulties of tracing the ownership interests and nationalities of modern,
publicly held corporations that have thousands of stockholders and capital
stock that is traded on a daily basis on the stock markets.3
The present record contains a copy of ChevronTexaco Corporation’s 2002
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Annual Report Pursuant
to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (SEC
Form 10-K). An SEC Form 10-K is the report that publicly held corporations
file with the SEC on an annual basis; the report provides a comprehensive
overview of a corporation’s business and financial condition and includes
audited financial statements. See generally U.S. SEC, Quick Answers,
Form 10-K, http://www.sec.gov/answers/form10k.htm (last modified June 26,
2009).
In the present matter, the submitted SEC Form 10-K reflects
that ChevronTexaco is incorporated in the State of Delaware and that
ChevronTexaco stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, located
in New York, New York, and on the Pacific Stock Exchange, located
in San Francisco, California. The AAO notes that the Restated Certificate
of Incorporation of ChevronTexaco Corporation, dated October 9, 2001,
reflects that ChevronTexaco stock is traded publicly, and that “[t]he total
of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority
to issue is four billion one hundred million (4,100,000,000), of which one
hundred million (100,000,000) shares shall be Preferred Stock . . . and four
billion (4,000,000,000) shares shall be Common Stock.”
The AAO recognizes that the widely dispersed ownership of publicly held
corporations makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible, for an applicant
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
4 Section 319(b) of the Act relates, in part, to the naturalization requirements of spouses
of United States citizens who are employed overseas by an “American firm or corporation”
and who are engaged in whole or in part in the development of foreign trade and commerce
of the United States, or a subsidiary thereof.
5 The current case, however, is readily distinguished from the case addressed by the 1995
Legal Opinion. The alien in that case was employed by a closely held corporation that was
the wholly owned subsidiary of a multi-tiered business entity. The ultimate parent
corporation was incorporated abroad, and the majority of its stock was owned by persons
who were not U.S. citizens or nationals. Thus, the employing corporation was a foreign
corporation because the ultimate parent corporation was a foreign corporation. In this
current appeal, the AAO is examining the nationality of the publicly traded parent
corporation, rather than a closely held subsidiary.
373
under section 316(b) of the Act to trace the interests and nationalities of its
stockholders. As in this case, a publicly traded corporation may issue billions
of shares of stock which are traded daily by the general public.
Examining a question relating to the nationality of a corporation and
section 319(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1430 (2006), a 1995 Legal Opinion
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Office of the General Counsel
(now Citizenship and Immigration Services, Office of Chief Counsel)
discussed the United States Department of State regulations and precedent
legal decisions interpreting the definition of a corporation’s nationality for
purposes of the treaty trader and investor nonimmigrant visa classification.4
The Legal Opinion observed that a corporation is normally found to have the
nationality of whoever owns more than 50% of the corporation’s capital stock.
The Legal Opinion indicated that it would be anomalous to have two
conflicting principles to decide the same issue, with the variance depending
upon which section of the Act applied to the case. See Office of INS
Gen. Counsel, U.S. Dep’t of Justice, Interpretation of American Firm
or Corporation for section 319(b) of the Act, Genco Op. No. 95-21 (Sept. 14,
1995), available at 1995 WL 1796328. The Legal Opinion concluded that
the definition of “American firm or corporation” established for purposes
of nonimmigrant treaty traders and investors should also apply to relevant
cases under sections 316(b) and 319(b) of the Act, as well.5
The AAO notes that the Department of State expanded the nationality
definition of a corporation for nonimmigrant treaty trader and investor
purposes in Volume 9 of the Foreign Affairs Manual, 9 FAM 41.51 note 3.2,
which states, in pertinent part:
In cases where a corporation is sold exclusively on a stock exchange in the
country of incorporation, however, one can presume that the nationality of the
corporation is that of the location of the exchange. The applicant should still, and
may be requested to provide the best evidence available to support such
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
6 Note that both facts must be present in order for a publicly traded firm to be considered
“American.” If a firm or corporation does not satisfy both criteria, the applicant must meet
the requirements of Matter of Warrach, 17 I&N Dec. at 285, to establish that the employer
is an “American firm or corporation.”
374
a presumption. In the case of a multinational corporation whose stock is exchanged
in more than one country, then the applicant must satisfy the consular officer by the
best evidence available that the business meets the nationality requirement.
As noted by Matter of Warrach, 17 I&N Dec. at 287, the fact that a firm
is incorporated under the laws of a State of the United States does not
necessarily determine that it is an American firm or corporation. However,
given the difficulty of tracing the nationalities and ownership interests
of modern public corporations, the AAO finds that it is reasonable to presume
that a publicly held corporation meets the definition of “American firm
or corporation” for section 316(b) purposes if the applicant demonstrates that
the employer is both incorporated in the United States and trades its stock
exclusively on U.S. stock markets.6
In the present matter, the AAO finds that the evidence contained in the
record establishes that ChevronTexaco is incorporated in the United States
and that it is a publicly held corporation whose stock is exclusively
sold on United States stock exchange markets. The applicant has
therefore established that ChevronTexaco qualifies as an “American firm
or corporation” under section 316(b) of the Act.
III. SUBSIDIARY AND “PREPONDERANCE OF EVIDENCE”
In addition, the AAO finds that the applicant has established that Saudi
Arabia Texaco (“SAT”) qualifies as a “subsidiary” of ChevronTexaco under
section 316(b) of the Act. Under section 316(b) of the Act, an applicant must
establish that she or he is “[e]mployed by an American firm or corporation
engaged in whole or in part in the development of foreign trade and commerce
of the United States, or a subsidiary thereof more than 50 per centum of whose
stock is owned by an American firm or corporation.”
The AAO notes that the ChevronTexaco SEC Form 10-K submitted by the
applicant states that
ChevronTexaco Corporation, a Delaware corporation, manages its investments
in subsidiaries and affiliates, and provides administrative, financial and management
support to U.S. and foreign subsidiaries that engage in fully integrated petroleum
operations, chemicals operations, coal mining, power and energy services. The
company operates in the United States and approximately 180 other countries. 
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
7 The standard of proof should not be confused with the burden of proof. The burden
of proving eligibility for the benefit sought remains entirely with the applicant. Section
316(b)(2) of the Act; see also section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361 (2006). Additionally,
the “preponderance of the evidence” standard does not relieve the petitioner or applicant
from satisfying the basic evidentiary requirements set by regulation. There are
no regulations relating to a corporation’s eligibility as an “American firm or corporation”
under section 316(b) of the Act. Had the regulations required specific evidence, the
applicant would have been required to submit that evidence. Cf. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)
(2006) (requiring that specific objective evidence be submitted to demonstrate eligibility
as an alien of extraordinary ability).
375
See SEC Form 10-K at 3. In discussing its international operations, the SEC
Form 10-K states further that “Saudi Arabia Texaco, a ChevronTexaco
subsidiary, holds a concession to produce onshore crude oil from the
Partitioned Neutral Zone (PNZ), located between the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia and the State of Kuwait.” Id. at 15-16 (emphasis added).
In addition, the record contains a letter written by Mr. Tim Miller,
Assistant to the President, Saudi Arabian Texaco, stating that “ChevronTexaco
is engaged in the development of foreign trade and commerce of the
United States through its wholly-owned subsidiary—Saudi Arabian Texaco
(SAT), which is located in Kuwait.” (Emphasis added.) The letter also
states that the applicant will be assigned temporarily to SAT in Kuwait for
2 to 3 years in the same capacity that he fills at ChevronTexaco in California,
and that while abroad, the applicant will continue to be paid his annual salary
by ChevronTexaco.
Although the applicant could have submitted more probative evidence
to establish that SAT is a subsidiary of ChevronTexaco, such as direct
evidence of the ownership of SAT stock, the AAO finds that the SEC
Form 10-K and the letter written by his employer are sufficient to establish
by a preponderance of evidence that SAT is a wholly owned subsidiary
of ChevronTexaco.7
 Except where a different standard is specified by law,
a petitioner or applicant in administrative immigration proceedings must prove
by a preponderance of evidence that he or she is eligible for the benefit sought.
See, e.g., Matter of Martinez, 21 I&N Dec. 1035, 1036 (BIA 1997) (noting that
the petitioner must prove eligibility by a preponderance of evidence in visa
petition proceedings); Matter of Soo Hoo, 11 I&N Dec. 151, 152 (BIA 1965)
(finding that the petitioner had not established eligibility by a preponderance
of the evidence because the submitted evidence was not credible); cf. Matter
of Patel, 19 I&N Dec. 774, 782-3 (BIA 1988) (noting that section 204(a)(2)(A)
of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1154(a)(2)(A) (Supp. IV 1986), requires a higher
standard of clear and convincing evidence to rebut the presumption
of a fraudulent prior marriage). 
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
376
The “preponderance of the evidence” standard requires that the evidence
demonstrate that the applicant’s claim is “probably true,” where the
determination of “truth” is made based on the factual circumstances of each
individual case. Matter of E-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (Comm’r 1989).
In evaluating the evidence, Matter of E-M- also stated that “[t]ruth
is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality.”
Id. at 80. Thus, in adjudicating the application pursuant to the preponderance
of the evidence standard, the director must examine each piece of evidence for
relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the
context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact
to be proven is probably true.
Even if the director has some doubt as to the truth, if the petitioner submits
relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads the director to believe that
the claim is “more likely than not” or “probably” true, the applicant
or petitioner has satisfied the standard of proof. See INS v. Cardoza-Fonseca,
480 U.S. 421, 431 (1987) (discussing “more likely than not” as a greater than
50% chance of an occurrence taking place). If the director can articulate
a material doubt, it is appropriate for the director to either request additional
evidence or, if that doubt leads the director to believe that the claim is probably
not true, deny the application or petition.
Here, the submitted evidence is relevant, probative, and credible.
As a document that is based on audited financial statements and reviewed
by a Federal agency, the information in the SEC Form 10-K is highly credible
and warrants substantial weight in immigration proceedings. And although the
specific claim that SAT is a “wholly-owned subsidiary” is not supported
by independent evidence, the letter from the applicant’s employer is relevant,
uncontroverted by any other evidence, and generally supported by the SEC
Form 10-K. Furthermore, as the assistant to the president of SAT, the author
is in a position to have first-hand knowledge of the corporation’s relationship
with ChevronTexaco. As required under the applicable standard of proof,
the evidence establishes that it is “probably” true that SAT is a subsidiary
of an “American firm or corporation,” with at least 50% of its stock owned
by ChevronTexaco, as required by section 316(b) of the Act.
The AAO finds that the evidence sufficiently establishes that the
applicant’s overseas employer, Saudi Arabian Texaco, qualifies as a subsidiary
of ChevronTexaco under section 316(b) of the Act. The evidence further
establishes that the applicant’s assignment to work with SAT is temporary and
for the purpose of assisting ChevronTexaco to engage in the development
of foreign trade and commerce. 
Cite as 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) Interim Decision #3700
377
IV. CONCLUSION
From the evidence in the record, the AAO finds that ChevronTexaco meets
the definition of an “American corporation,” since it is incorporated in the
United States and is publicly traded solely on U.S. stock exchanges. The AAO
also finds that Saudi Arabian Texaco is a “subsidiary” of ChevronTexaco, and
that ChevronTexaco owns more than 50% of the stock in Saudi Arabian
Texaco. On the basis of these findings, the AAO concludes that the applicant
meets the requirements for preservation of his residence for naturalization
purposes pursuant to section 316(b) of the Act. The appeal will therefore
be sustained.
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 